roles/base/README.md, before:

Base
=========
Basic setup of a sensible Debian host. Summary:  
1. Setup Grub and `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT`, enable vendor-specific IOMMU.
2. Setup `dpkg` overrides, `apt` and harden permissions of various paths.
3. Setup locale/timezone, hostname and packages, enable `unattended-upgrades`.
4. Configure `knot-resolver` as the default DNS resolver and `timesyncd` as the NTP client.
5. Configure `sshd` and optionally open TCP/22 with limits applied via `ufw` and `sshguard` watching the login attempts.
6. Optionally generate unique set of moduli for DH key exchange.
7. Configure various sysctl tunables, system and `systemd` settings.
8. Optionally disable bluetooth, thunderbolt, firewire as well as some other kernel modules.
9. Optionally configure Caps Lock key as Control modifier.
10. Reduce preservation times for various logs across the system.
11. If explicitely allowed, automatically reboot system at the end.

Requirements
------------
Ansible ≥2.9  
Debian 11 (might work on its derivatives, however this is not guaranteed)

Role Variables
--------------

| Variable                    | Description                                                              | Default                  |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| allow_reboot                | Automatically reboot target machine if necessary.                        | False                    |
| allow_ssh                   | Allow (and limit) incoming SSH.                                          | False                    |
| debs                        | Additional .deb packages to install.                                     | []                       |
| disable_bluetooth           | Likewise.                                                                | True                     |
| disable_firewire            | Similar to the above.                                                    | True                     |
| disable_hfs_udf             | ...                                                                      | True                     |
| disable_sleep_hibernate     | Disables respective systemd services.                                    | False                    |
| disable_speaker             | Internal "beeper" only, nothing to do with ALSA.                         | True                     |
| disable_thunderbolt         | Blacklist Thunderbolt kernel modules. [See why](https://thunderspy.io/). | True                     |
| fb_font_size                | Framebuffer font size                                                    | 10x18                    |
| fstab_noexec                | Mount /dev/shm with nodev, nosuid, and noexec.                           | True                     |
| generate_moduli             | Generate new set of 4096 DH moduli.                                      | False (copy bundled set) |
| grub_optional               | Additional options for `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT`.                     | -                        |
| locale                      | For example, "en_GB.UTF-8".                                              | en_AU.UTF8               |
| pkg_install_extra           | Install "extra" packages. Minimal, but useful set of software.           | False                    |
| pkg_remove_defaults         | Remove certain packages that are often installed by default.             | False                    |
| resolver_install            | Install Knot DNS resolver. Recommended to enable.                        | False                    |
| resolver_blocklist          | Optional path to the blocklist _in RPZ format_.                          | ""                       |
| resolver_listen_on_ip       | Address on which Knot will listen.                                       | 127.0.0.1                |
| resolver_primary_hostname   | ...                                                                      | dns.quad9.net            |
| resolver_primary_ip         | Self-explanatory                                                         | 9.9.9.9                  |
| resolver_secondary_hostname | ...                                                                      | dns.quad9.net            |
| resolver_secondary_ip       | ...                                                                      | 149.112.112.112          |
| resolver_tls                | Boolean, forward queries via TCP/TLS or UDP                              | True (TLS)               |
| set_capslock                | Set <kbd>CapsLock</kbd> as <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>.                              | False                    |
| set_dpkg_console            | Sets framebuffer/console: font size, encoding, etc.                      | True                     |
| set_dpkg_overrides          | Tighten various filesystem permissions. Use with care!                   | False                    |
| set_dpkg_relax_pam          | `chmod 0755 /etc/pam.d`, might be needed if `set_dpkg_overrides` is set. | False                    |
| set_hostname                | Set target's hostname to the `inventory_hostname`                        | False                    |
| sshd_less_secure            | Enables aes256-cbc cipher and hmac-sha-256 MAC.                          | False                    |
| sshguard_install            | Install and configure `sshguard`                                         | True                     |
| sshguard_path               | Path to sshguard config.                                                 | System default           |
| timezone                    | Self-explanatory.                                                        | UTC                      |
| ufw_rule                    | Template for a UFW rule. See below for a detailed explanation.           | []                       |
| ufw_service                 | Template for a UFW service. See below for a detailed explanation.        | []                       |

### ufw_rule

Variable accepts the following list of hashes:

| Variable  | Description           | Default | Required | Possible values                    |
|-----------|-----------------------|---------|----------|------------------------------------|
| comment   | Rule comment.         | ""      | no       | Alphanumerics                      |
| direction | Traffic direction     | "in"    | no       | "in", "out"                        |
| from      | Traffic source        | any     | no       | Network address                    |
| to        | Traffic destination   | any     | no       | Network address                    |
| port      | Port, single or range | any     | no       | integer or "int:int"               |
| proto     | Protocol              | any     | no       | "tcp", "udp", "esp", "gre", "any"  |
| rule      | Action taken          | ""      | yes      | "allow", "deny", "limit", "reject" |

Example:

```yaml
ufw_rule:
  - { comment: 'Drop incoming TCP traffic from 192.168.*.* to port 22/tcp', direction: 'in', from: '192.168.0.0/16', port: '22', proto: 'tcp', rule: 'deny' }
```

Note that if "to" in undefined, it will be interpreted as "to any".

#### Quirks

1. If rule specifies a port range, protocol must be set explicitely to "tcp" or "udp".

### ufw_service

Similar to the above, but provisions service using data from `/etc/ufw/applications.d` and `/etc/services`.
`direction`, `port` and `proto` are replaced with a single variable: `service`.

Example:

```yaml
ufw_rule:
  - { comment: 'Reject Yahoo messenger from 192.168.67.83', rule: 'deny', from: '192.168.67.83', service: 'Yahoo' }
```

Dependencies
------------
None

License
-------
MIT

Author Information
------------------
Andrew Savchenko  
https://savchenko.net

Commit message:

Drop `set_dpkg_relax_pam`

roles/base/README.md, after:

Base
=========
Basic setup of a sensible Debian host.  
Non-exhaustive summary, majority of these are optional:  
- Setup Grub and `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT`, enable vendor-specific IOMMU.
- Setup `dpkg` overrides, `apt` and harden permissions of various paths.
- Setup locale/timezone, hostname and packages, enable `unattended-upgrades`.
- Configure `knot-resolver` as the default DNS resolver and `timesyncd` as the NTP client.
- Configure `sshd` and open TCP/22 with limits applied via `ufw` and `sshguard` watching the login attempts.
- Generate unique set of moduli for DH key exchange.
- Configure various sysctl tunables, system and `systemd` settings.
- Disable bluetooth, thunderbolt, firewire as well as some other kernel modules.
- Configure Caps Lock key as Control modifier, setup framebuffer locale and font.
- Reduce preservation times for various logs across the system.
- If explicitely allowed, automatically reboot system at the end.

Have a look at variables section below.

Requirements
------------
Ansible ≥2.9  
Debian 11 (might work on its derivatives, however this is not guaranteed)

Role Variables
--------------

| Variable                    | Description                                                              | Default                  |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| allow_reboot                | Automatically reboot target machine if necessary.                        | False                    |
| allow_ssh                   | Allow (and limit) incoming SSH.                                          | False                    |
| debs                        | Additional .deb packages to install.                                     | []                       |
| disable_bluetooth           | Likewise.                                                                | True                     |
| disable_firewire            | Similar to the above.                                                    | True                     |
| disable_hfs_udf             | ...                                                                      | True                     |
| disable_sleep_hibernate     | Disables respective systemd services.                                    | False                    |
| disable_speaker             | Internal "beeper" only, nothing to do with ALSA.                         | True                     |
| disable_thunderbolt         | Blacklist Thunderbolt kernel modules. [See why](https://thunderspy.io/). | True                     |
| fb_font_size                | Framebuffer font size                                                    | 10x18                    |
| fstab_noexec                | Mount /dev/shm with nodev, nosuid, and noexec.                           | True                     |
| generate_moduli             | Generate new set of 4096 DH moduli.                                      | False (copy bundled set) |
| grub_optional               | Additional options for `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT`.                     | -                        |
| locale                      | For example, "en_GB.UTF-8".                                              | en_AU.UTF8               |
| pkg_install_extra           | Install "extra" packages. Minimal, but useful set of software.           | False                    |
| pkg_remove_defaults         | Remove certain packages that are often installed by default.             | False                    |
| resolver_install            | Install Knot DNS resolver. Recommended to enable.                        | False                    |
| resolver_blocklist          | Optional path to the blocklist _in RPZ format_.                          | ""                       |
| resolver_listen_on_ip       | Address on which Knot will listen.                                       | 127.0.0.1                |
| resolver_primary_hostname   | ...                                                                      | dns.quad9.net            |
| resolver_primary_ip         | Self-explanatory                                                         | 9.9.9.9                  |
| resolver_secondary_hostname | ...                                                                      | dns.quad9.net            |
| resolver_secondary_ip       | ...                                                                      | 149.112.112.112          |
| resolver_tls                | Boolean, forward queries via TCP/TLS or UDP                              | True (TLS)               |
| set_capslock                | Set <kbd>CapsLock</kbd> as <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>.                              | False                    |
| set_dpkg_console            | Sets framebuffer/console: font size, encoding, etc.                      | True                     |
| set_dpkg_overrides          | Tighten various filesystem permissions. Use with care!                   | False                    |
| set_hostname                | Set target's hostname to the `inventory_hostname`                        | False                    |
| sshd_less_secure            | Enables aes256-cbc cipher and hmac-sha-256 MAC.                          | False                    |
| sshguard_install            | Install and configure `sshguard`                                         | True                     |
| sshguard_path               | Path to sshguard config.                                                 | System default           |
| timezone                    | Self-explanatory.                                                        | UTC                      |
| ufw_rule                    | Template for a UFW rule. See below for a detailed explanation.           | []                       |
| ufw_service                 | Template for a UFW service. See below for a detailed explanation.        | []                       |

### ufw_rule

Variable accepts the following list of hashes:

| Variable  | Description           | Default | Required | Possible values                    |
|-----------|-----------------------|---------|----------|------------------------------------|
| comment   | Rule comment.         | ""      | no       | Alphanumerics                      |
| direction | Traffic direction     | "in"    | no       | "in", "out"                        |
| from      | Traffic source        | any     | no       | Network address                    |
| to        | Traffic destination   | any     | no       | Network address                    |
| port      | Port, single or range | any     | no       | integer or "int:int"               |
| proto     | Protocol              | any     | no       | "tcp", "udp", "esp", "gre", "any"  |
| rule      | Action taken          | ""      | yes      | "allow", "deny", "limit", "reject" |

Example:

```yaml
ufw_rule:
  - { comment: 'Drop incoming TCP traffic from 192.168.*.* to port 22/tcp', direction: 'in', from: '192.168.0.0/16', port: '22', proto: 'tcp', rule: 'deny' }
```

Note that if "to" in undefined, it will be interpreted as "to any".

#### Quirks

1. If rule specifies a port range, protocol must be set explicitely to "tcp" or "udp".

### ufw_service

Similar to the above, but provisions service using data from `/etc/ufw/applications.d` and `/etc/services`.
`direction`, `port` and `proto` are replaced with a single variable: `service`.

Example:

```yaml
ufw_rule:
  - { comment: 'Reject Yahoo messenger from 192.168.67.83', rule: 'deny', from: '192.168.67.83', service: 'Yahoo' }
```

Dependencies
------------
None

License
-------
MIT

Author Information
------------------
Andrew Savchenko  
https://savchenko.net
